scalable - means size / large amount of data
mongo duplicate is  also allowed

A - it will responsible for entire transaction(failure)
C - 5000 not more or not less how much data is required that much will be provided
I - other document are distrubing or not
D - once done transaction it update data is refelect in the Database

founders of mongodb

eliot horrowitz
kevin rayan
delight marryman

    sql                                 vs                              Nosql

It is RDBMS                                            It is Distributed Database or Nosql Database or Non-relationaldatabase

sql has Fixed schema or static schema                  It has Dynamic schema or schema less

It is suitable for complex queries                     It is not suitable for complex queries

sql supports ACID properties                           No-sql doesn't supports ACID properties

sql is vertically scalable                             No-sql is horizontal scalable

example:                                               example:
    mysql, oracle, sqllite, mssql etc                       mongo db, dynamo db, Hbase, couch db, redis etc




Nosql is a type of database management system (DBMS) that is designed to handle and store large 
volume of unstructured and semi-structed data.



Nosql database are generally calssified into four main categories:

Document Database:
    A document database stores data in json, bson, or XML document. 
    Document in the database can be nested.
    Document database are mongo db, apache, couch db.

Key-value stores:
    This is the  simplest type of Nosql database . 
    Every element stored in key value pair consisting of an attributes name ('key') and value.
    key-value database are amazon, redis, memecached, dinamodb.

column-family store / wide-column store:
    while an RDBMS stores data in row and reads it row and reads it row by row, 
    column-oriented database are organized as a set of columns.
    wide-column database are cassandra, H-base.

Graph database:
    A Graph database focuses on the relationship between data element . 
    Each element is contained as a node. the connections between element in the database are called links or relationship. 
    Graph database are Neo4j.


ACID properties in DBMS

Atomicity:
    The entire transaction take place at once or doesn't happen at all.

Consistency:
    The database must be consistent before and after the transaction.

Isolation:
    Multiple transaction occur independently without interference.

Durability:
    The changes of a successful transaction occur even is the system failure occur.


what is json ? 
    JSON stands for javascript object notation.
    JSON is a open source data-interchange format.
    JSON is lightweight and self-describing.
    JSON oriented from javascript.
    JSON is easy to write.
    JSON is language independent.
    JSON supports data structures such as array and object.


